
# Grifters

<br>

![](images/Thailand Countryside Pixel 3.png)

<hr>


    Forgive me, but today we will be talking about politics. I will be speaking in
hyperbole. Note that for every broad generalization that I make there is bound to be a 
counterexample, and for every simplification an elaboration. But this is, for the most 
part, what I believe.

    America was founded by and run by the Puritans. Religious freedom was very very 
important to them, because they were exiled to and subsequently branded as heretics by 
multiple different countries before they were essentially kicked off the continent. 
They rightfully believed that nobody should have to experience that. That religious 
freedom should be a fundamental right.

    But once they got to America, at some point things changed. Once they established 
their own society, suddenly there were religious in groups and out groups again. They 
enforced their way of life, and at one point even hunted their own as witches. Is 
religious freedom for all really what they wanted? Or did they just want freedom for 
themselves?

    There are innumerable examples of this. Maybe it's the nature of societies. Maybe it's 
the nature of individuals. Perhaps new generations are in general worse at acting upon 
the ideals of the previous, even if they are adept at enforcing the inherited cultural 
norms and policies. I don't know. Whatever the case, it seems like we never learn this 
lesson.

    It seems that, as they gain control of the cultural narrative, the previously 
downtrodden don't want to reform the system so that nobody gets stepped on. They just 
don't want to be stepped on anymore. If possible, they may even like to wear the boot 
one day. Nothing changes structurally, and so the stepping continues.

    From time to time, I've been astonished at the foresight of the founding fathers. 
Other times less astonished. A lot of them owned slaves, after all. The deepest 
hypocrisy imaginable. But perhaps the Declaration of Independence says it best. Life, 
liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. The duty of government is to ensure the right to 
for all citizens to maximize these things. Failure to allow for the optimization of 
these things is, in my mind, a failure to commit to the American cultural ideals. There 
should be no boot.


    All of what I've said so far is, I feel, fairly incontrovertible by our cultural 
standards. Now let's get controversial. I think that those three objectives, life, 
liberty, and the right to pursue happiness, are a philosophical razor which cut to the 
core of many social issues today. I don't think that this makes me a libertarian 
though. It makes me a pragmatist. A libertarian is someone who advocates maximizing 
individual rights and minimizing the role of the state. But if the best steady-state 
solution to a problem involves the government stepping in to impose order at the 
expense of some individual rights, then so be it. Whatever gets the job done.

    Gender is perhaps the most obvious application of the new (old) razor. People need 
the liberty to figure out (or save) their life and pursue their happiness. The degree 
to which the existence of queer people affects the lives of people who may have a 
problem with their queerness is relatively minuscule. Most arguments that I've heard to 
the contrary seem to boil down to "me or my family might have to look at them." 
Therefore to maximize the life, liberty, and ability to pursue happiness of all 
citizens, we should be supportive. Or at least not unsupportive. The thought of passing 
a law for the explicit purpose of preventing certain people from acheiving happiness 
seems very unamerican to me.

    On the other side of the political spectrum, I think it's naive to dismiss the fact 
that an entire culture has grown up around the idea of gun ownership. These people want 
to maximize their happiness too, and fear the destruction of their culture. Then again, 
the government does have the right to maximize the life of its citizens. I don't have 
strong opinions on gun control, but I feel that we're approaching the problem from 
entirely the wrong angle. We are talking past each other. We should be trying to 
understand the culture and motivations of our counterparty.

    Housing is another application of the razor. Zoning rules and red tape make it 
difficult and expensive to build new housing units, especially the sort of low cost 
high density ones which could bring down the cost of living in the areas where they're 
needed most. This pushes people out onto the street, leading many kill themselves 
rather than go homeless. I feel as though life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness 
are not being maximized here. Therefore, these laws are bad. It's a shame that nobody 
in a position to actually change things wants to bring down the cost of living. I'm
left wondering why we put up with this.

    Nowadays, it feels like everyone is conspiring to juice each other for dollars. 
Capitalism has to pick winners and losers, and nobody wants to lose. It's no wonder why 
even the ones who have money want to accrue more of it, there's always another vying 
for their position. While there are plenty of ideologues who would take issue with 
there being winners and losers. I've accepted it. But I wish that it wasn't such a zero 
sum game.

    It's not supposed to be. In "The Wealth of Nations," Adam Smith said "By pursuing his 
own interest he frequently promotes that of the society more effectually than when he 
really intends to promote it." Basically, that greed does societal good, more so than 
trying to help society directly. Growing the business is supposed to grow the economy, 
which raises the standard of living. A story we've all heard before. This probably used 
to be the case, but looking around, it's getting harder and harder to believe Adam 
Smith in the modern day. It turns out that creating real lasting value is hard. It's 
much easier to grift, or to skim off the top, or to squeeze a monopoly. It's a lot more 
efficient too. And capitalism rewards efficiency.

    Many fortunes have been made over the past twenty years in real estate. "Investors" 
(speculators) buy houses, prices go up, and now the houses are worth more. Often they 
rent them out, then take out loans against the value of these houses, and rinse and 
repeat until they have a ridiculous amount of both real estate and debt. They get laws 
passed to prevent more houses from being built. The price increases. Banks, 
understanding what's going on and wanting a piece of the action, start lending to those 
who they know will default. Suddenly the price goes down. Oh no. Panic ensues, the 
government steps in to bail out the grifters, and still nothing of value has been 
produced. The whole thing smells suspiciously like a pump and dump, just with 
"accredited investors" and houses instead of NFT profile pictures on Twitter and 
digital coins with dogs on them.

    More sophisticated investment vehicles do not do the world any modicum of good either. 
I'm not referring to just mortgage-backed securities. Finance makes up 8% of the US 
economy. Why? Surely finance has a place, but this is ridiculous. It doesn't produce 
anything. How many talented students have left promising fields to toil in this 
bottomless pit? Even Warren Buffet has commented that this is a gargantuan waste of 
talent, and society would be better served if their talents were directed elsewhere.

    How many advancements have we given up on for the privilege of shuffling money 
around? How many cures? Does it really matter who exactly holds onto the pile of 
money if nothing ever changes structurally? How many people have had to say goodbye 
to their family members early because of innovation that didn't happen? Don't even 
get me started on the perverse incentives in healthcare. I don't need to elaborate, 
you already know what the problem is. More grifters. They're killing people, and 
we can't seem to do a thing about it.

    I feel like, if we Americans still believed in our founding ideals, we would not stand 
for this zero sum thinking. We would recognize what's happening, awaken whatever's left 
of our political consciousness, oust the grifters, and maximize the life, liberty, and 
pursuit of happiness for all Americans. Ideally, for all people in general. The current 
system deprives us of these rights, or at least doesn't enable us to pursue them to the 
extent that it could. It seems that we're no better than the Puritans. And sadly, 
grifting for campaign money is a prerequisite for getting into office. We're so fucked.

    I'm working on getting out from under the boot, and I hope you do too. But once 
you're in a position of power, don't put on the boot. Don't hate, don't grift, and 
don't try to regulate your competition. That would make you a truly detestable and 
pathetic human being. I'm looking at you, Sam Altman. If you're complicit in this 
grifting behavior, and you have the choice not to be, then don't be. Go do something 
that actually produces value of some sort, any sort. Even if you make less money. If 
it meant that the world would be a structurally better place, I would live under a 
bridge. Actually though, it works the opposite way. To change the world, I first 
need to obtain power.

    What's the easiest way to gain power? Ah yeah, to grift. Fuck.
